

# --- Start of role-302006.md ---

## Disclosure Requirement related to ESRS 2 IRO-1 – Description of the processes to identify and assess material pollution-related impacts, risks and opportunities

11. The undertaking shall describe the process to identify material impacts, risks and opportunities and shall provide information on:

	- (a) whether the undertaking has screened its site locations and business activities in order to identify its actual and potential pollution-related impacts, risks and opportunities in its own operations and upstream and downstream value chain, and if so, the methodologies, assumptions and tools used in the screening;
	- (b) whether and how the undertaking has conducted consultations, in particular with affected communities. 



# --- End of role-302006.md ---



# --- Start of role-302010.md ---

## Disclosure Requirement E2-1 – Policies related to pollution

12. The undertaking shall describe its policies adopted to manage its material impacts, risks and opportunities related to pollution prevention and control.

13. The objective of this Disclosure Requirement is to enable an understanding of the extent to which the undertaking has policies that address the identification, assessment, management and/or remediation of material pollution-related impacts, risks and opportunities.

14. The disclosure required by paragraph 12 shall contain the information on the policies the undertaking has in place to manage its material impacts, risks and opportunities related to pollution in accordance with ESRS 2 MDR-P Policies adopted to manage material sustainability matters.

15. The undertaking shall indicate, with regard to its own operations and its upstream and downstream value chain, whether and how its policies address the following areas where material:

	- (a) mitigating negative impacts related to pollution of air, water and soil including prevention and control;
	- (b) substituting and minimising the use of substances of concern, and phasing out substances of very high concern, in particular for non-essential societal use and in consumer products;
	- (c) avoiding incidents and emergency situations, and if and when they occur, controlling and limiting their impact on people and the environment. 


# --- End of role-302010.md ---



# --- Start of role-302020.md ---

## Disclosure Requirement E2-2 – Actions and resources related to pollution

16. The undertaking shall disclose its pollution-related actions and the resources allocated to their implementation.

17. The objective of this Disclosure Requirement is to enable an understanding of the key actions taken and planned to achieve the pollution-related policy objectives and targets.

18. The description of the pollution-related action plans and resources shall contain the information prescribed in ESRS 2 MDR-A Actions and resources in relation to material sustainability matters.

19. In addition to ESRS 2 MDR-A, the undertaking may specify to which layer in the following mitigation hierarchy an action and resources can be allocated:

   	- (a) avoid pollution including any phase out of materials or compounds that have a negative impact (prevention of pollution at source);

   	- (b) reduce pollution, including: any phase-out of materials or compounds; meeting enforcement requirements such as Best Available Techniques (BAT) requirements; or meeting the Do No Significant Harm criteria for pollution prevention and control according to the EU Taxonomy Regulation and its Delegated Acts (minimisation of pollution); and

   	- (c) remediate pollution including waste management, treatment and containment or restoration of ecosystems (end of pipe solution). 


# --- End of role-302020.md ---



# --- Start of role-302030.md ---

## Disclosure Requirement E2-3 – Targets related to pollution

20. The undertaking shall disclose the pollution-related targets it has set.

21. The objective of this Disclosure Requirement is to enable an understanding of the targets the undertaking has set to support its pollution-related policies and to address its material pollution-related impacts, risks and opportunities.

22. The description of targets shall contain the information requirements defined in ESRS 2 MDR-T Tracking effectiveness of policies and actions through targets.

23. The disclosure required by paragraph 20 shall indicate whether and how its targets relate to the prevention and control of:

	- (a) air pollutants and respective specific loads;
	- (b) emissions to water and respective specific loads;
	- (c) pollution to soil and respective specific loads; and
	- (d) substances of concern and substances of very high concern.

24. In addition to ESRS 2 MDR-T, the undertaking may specify whether ecological thresholds (e.g., the biosphere integrity, stratospheric ozone-depletion, atmospheric aerosol loading, soil depletion, ocean acidification) and entity-specific allocations were taken into consideration when setting targets. If so, the undertaking may specify:

	- (a) the ecological thresholds identified, and the methodology used to identify such thresholds;
	- (b) whether or not the thresholds are entity-specific and if so, how they were determined; and
	- (c) how responsibility for respecting identified ecological thresholds is allocated in the undertaking.

25. The undertaking shall specify as part of the contextual information, whether the targets that it has set and presented are mandatory (required by legislation) or voluntary. 


# --- End of role-302030.md ---



# --- Start of role-302040.md ---

# Disclosure Requirement E2-4 – Pollution of air, water and soil

26. The undertaking shall disclose the pollutants that it emits through its own operations, as well as the microplastics it generates or uses.

27. The objective of this Disclosure Requirement is to provide an understanding of the emissions that the undertaking generates to air, water and soil in its own operations, and of its generation and use of microplastics.

28. The undertaking shall disclose the amounts of:

	- (a) each pollutant listed in Annex II of Regulation (EC) No 166/2006 of the European Parliament and of the Council (57) (European Pollutant Release and Transfer Register “E-PRTR Regulation”) emitted to air, water and soil, with the exception of emissions of GHGs which are disclosed in accordance with ESRS E1 Climate Change (58).

	- (b) microplastics generated or used by the undertaking.

29. The amounts referred in paragraph 28 shall be consolidated amounts including the emissions from those facilities over which the undertaking has financial control and those over which it has operational control. The consolidation shall include only the emissions from facilities for which the applicable threshold value specified in Annex II of Regulation (EC) No 166/2006 is exceeded.

30. The undertaking shall put its disclosure into context and describe:

	- (a) the changes over time,

	- (b) the measurement methodologies; and

	- (c) the process(es) to collect data for pollution-related accounting and reporting, including the type of data needed and the information sources.

31. When an inferior methodology compared to direct measurement of emissions is chosen to quantify emissions, the reasons for choosing this inferior methodology shall be outlined by the undertaking. If the undertaking uses estimates, it shall disclose the standard, sectoral study or sources which form the basis of its estimates, as well as the possible degree of uncertainty and the range of estimates reflecting the measurement uncertainty.


---
57 Regulation (EC) No 166/2006 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 18 January 2006 concerning the establishment of a European Pollutant Release and Transfer Register and amending Council Directives 91/689/EEC and 96/61/EC (OJ L 033 4.2.2006, p. 1)

58 This information supports the information needs of financial market participants subject to Regulation (EU) 2019/2088 because it is derived from: 	- (a) an additional indicator related to principal adverse impacts as set out by indicator #2 in Table II of Annex I of Commission Delegated Regulation (EU) 2022/1288 with regard to disclosure rules on sustainable investments (“Emissions of air pollutants”); 	- (b) indicator #8 in Table I of Annex I (“Emissions to water); 	- (c) indicator #1 in Table II of Annex I (“Emissions of inorganic pollutants”); and 	- (d) indicator #3 in Table II of Annex I (“Emissions of ozone-depleting substances”). 


# --- End of role-302040.md ---



# --- Start of role-302050.md ---

## Disclosure Requirement E2-5 – Substances of concern and substances of very high concern

32. The undertaking shall disclose information on the production, use, distribution, commercialization and import/export of substances of concern and substances of very high concern, on their own, in mixtures or in articles. 

33. The objective of this Disclosure Requirement is to enable an understanding of the impact of the undertaking on health and the environment through substances of concern and through substances of very high concern on their own. It is also to enable an understanding of the undertaking’s material risks and opportunities, including exposure to those substances and risks arising from changes in regulations.

34. The disclosure required by paragraph 32 shall include the total amounts of substances of concern that are generated or used during the production or that are procured, and the total amounts of substances of concern that leave its facilities as emissions, as products, or as part of products or services split into main hazard classes of substances of concern.

35. The undertaking shall present separately the information for substances of very high concern. 


# --- End of role-302050.md ---



# --- Start of role-302060.md ---

## Disclosure Requirement E2-6 – Anticipated financial effects from material pollution-related risks and opportunities

36. The undertaking shall disclose the anticipated financial effects of material pollution-related risks and opportunities. 

37. The information required by paragraph 36 is in addition to the information on current financial effects on the undertaking’s, financial position, financial performance and cash flows for the reporting period required under ESRS 2 SBM-3 para 48 	- (d).

38. The objective of this Disclosure Requirement is to provide an understanding of:

	- (a) anticipated financial effects due to material risks arising from pollution-related impacts and dependencies and how these risks have (or could reasonably be expected to have) a material influence on the undertaking’s, financial position financial performance and cash flows, over the short-, medium- and long-term.

	- (b) anticipated financial effects due to material opportunities related to pollution prevention and control. 

39. The disclosure shall include:

	- (a) a quantification of the anticipated financial effects in monetary terms before considering pollution-related actions, or where not possible without undue cost or effort, qualitative information. For financial effects arising from opportunities, a quantification is not required if it would result in disclosure that does not meet the qualitative characteristics of information (see ESRS 1 Appendix B Qualitative characteristics of information);

	- (b) a description of the effects considered, the related impacts and the time horizons in which they are likely to materialise; and

	- (c) the critical assumptions used to quantify the anticipated financial effects, as well as the sources and level of uncertainty of those assumptions. 


# --- End of role-302060.md ---



# --- Start of role-302061.md ---

# E2-6.1 Anticipated financial effects from material pollution-related risks and opportunities - time horizons - general

38. When disclosing the anticipated financial effects of material pollution-related risks and opportunities, the undertaking shall consider short-term, medium-term and long-term time horizons as defined in ESRS 1.




# --- End of role-302061.md ---

